Docs (#46)
dimagi/mpact: docs/index.md

mPACT Administration
====================

## The user interface

The first time the superuser logs in, they will see an empty user
interface:

![Empty user interface](img/01_first_time_login.png "Empty user interface")

You can mouse over the icons in the top left to see what each one does.

> A good place to start is to create a new chat group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good place to start is to create a new chat group, which is handled by Telegram and not the mPACT application.
```

superusers direct access to data. Normal users are not given a link to
the admin interface. Superusers will need to navigate to it manually, by
changing their browser's URL to ".../admin/". For example, if you are
using the environment on Heroku, the URL will start with
"http://mpact-demo.herokuapp.com/chat". Change that to
"http://mpact-demo.herokuapp.com/admin/" and log in as the superuser.

![Admin interface](img/04_admin_interface.png "Admin interface")

Choose "Scheduled messages" under "MPACT".

There you will see a list of the messages you uploaded. By using the box
on the right, you can filter the list to show only the messages that are
enabled.

If you click on a message, it will show you its details.

**NOTE:** Messages are scheduled to be sent, as they are, when schedules
are uploaded. Changes made to messages in the admin interface will not
affect messages that are already scheduled to be sent.

If you download schedules from the normal interface, you will see that
any changes you made in the admin interface are present in the
downloaded spreadsheet. By uploading the spreadsheet, mPACT will
re-schedule the messages, and bring those changes into effect.

> ## Individual chats

Reviewer: I think we should add a note here that participants **must** message the bot before we can upload their details. It is probably something that should be done as part of the registration process.

1. Press the bot's name to open their details
1. Press the "message" icon
1. Send a message

The interface will not show a separate chat for the participant
immediately. The next time you refresh the page or log into mPACT,
an individual chat with the participant will appear in the left panel.

After that, messages from participants will appear as they are sent.

![Individual chat](img/05_individual_chat.png "Individual chat")

## Uploading study participants

You can add participants to the study in bulk.

mPACT expects a spreadsheet in Excel 2007-365 (.xlsx) format. It will
use the first worksheet. It looks for a column with the heading "Study
ID", and a column with the heading "Phone Number" (case sensitive). You
can use this [empty sample spreadsheet][1] as a start.

Click the "Upload Study Participants" icon. You will be prompted for the
spreadsheet.

mPACT does not store the phone numbers of participants. It uses the
Telegram API to look up their Telegram ID. It will do this for each
participant.

**NOTE:** The Telegram API will only return the Telegram ID of
participants that have messaged the bot in the past. (Telegram does not

> allow bots to look up random people.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
allow bots to look up random people.) Thus, it is important to ask all participants
to directly message the bot if their data is to be linked to the relevant Study ID.
Participants must message the bot prior to the upload, but the upload can be done
more than once with no issues.
```

## Flagging messages

Flagging messages allows you to draw attention to specific messages for
follow-up or for important content. Click the down arrow to the right of
the participant's name, and choose "Flag message".

![Flag message](img/06_flag_message.png "Flag message")

Flagged messages are listed under "Flagged Messages" in the panel on the
left, and they are marked as flagged in exported study data.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flagged messages are global. That is, if `user 1` logs in and flags a message and `user 2` logs in later, both will see the newly flagged message on their list of flagged messages.
```

Norman is the above true?

Author: Good question! I'll check.

Author: Unfortunately not true @bderenzi

## Exporting study data

Click the "Export" icon to download all messages. mPACT will generate a

> CSV file that includes the senders' study participant ID (blank if they
> are not study participants) and message details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CSV file that includes the senders' study participant ID (blank if
participant details have not been uploaded for that participant) 
and message details.
```

mPACT Administration
====================

## Creating a new chat group

1. In Telegram, open the menu and choose "New Group".
1. Add the bot to the group. It will not appear as a contact. You will
   need to type its username (the same username as the BOT_USERNAME
   environment variable).
1. Give your new group a name.

The bot will be notified of its new group, and the group will be added
to the database. The next time you log into mPACT, the group will appear
in the left panel.

## Scheduling

Chats are associated with a set of `ScheduledMessage` objects, which
represent the schedule of messages to go out. All previous scheduled
messages are disabled when a new schedule is uploaded.

You can test scheduling in a development environment by running the
following commands. Get `<container_id>` from running `docker ps`.

```bash
docker cp /path/to/mpact_schedules.xlsx <container_id>:/mpact_schedules.xlsx
docker-compose exec web ./manage.py upload_schedule /mpact_schedules.xlsx 

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think we can just tell people to use the UI for this now that it exists.

Reviewer: +1

Even for testing / development, I think using the UI makes sense

When schedules are uploaded, once-off `PeriodicTask` objects are created
for each row in the schedule. These will call `tasks.send_msgs` with the
appropriate arguments for the chat.

### Creating schedules

Click the "Download schedules" icon and save "schedules.xlsx". Then open
it in your spreadsheet application.

You will see that the sheet has three columns, "Days", "Message" and

> "Comment".

Reviewer 2: Maybe also mention that there's one sheet per group?

Reviewer: Somewhere we need to stress the order: the group must be created, then we must download the schedules to edit/modify before we upload to set the new schedule. Also need to include that the admin interface is used to set the state date and the time messages are sent out.

schedules" icon.

### The admin interface

mPACT has a second interface, the admin interface, which gives
superusers direct access to data. Normal users are not given a link to
the admin interface. Superusers will need to navigate to it manually, by
changing their browser's URL to ".../admin/". For example, if you are
using the environment on Heroku, the URL will start with
"http://mpact-demo.herokuapp.com/chat". Change that to
"http://mpact-demo.herokuapp.com/admin/" and log in as the superuser.

![Admin interface](img/04_admin_interface.png "Admin interface")

Choose "Scheduled messages" under "MPACT".

There you will see a list of the messages you uploaded. By using the box
on the right, you can filter the list to show only the messages that are
enabled.

If you click on a message, it will show you its details. Here you can 
edit it, and disable or enable it.

If you disable a message, mPACT will not send it.

You can also use the admin interface to delete scheduled messages and
create new ones. If you download schedules from the normal interface
again, you will see that the changes you made in the admin interface are

> present in the downloaded spreadsheet.

Reviewer 2: Should we also add a note that uploading a new spreadsheet will override any changes that have been made in the admin? Maybe too obvious.

Reviewer: Can you create new scheduled messages in the admin interface? I was a bit unsure whether that would work or not

Author: Yes! Good call.

Reviewer 2: Oh, actually I think @bderenzi is right that it won't work. You would need to also call `rebuild_schedule_for_group`. could do something similar to https://github.com/dimagi/mpact/pull/47/files if we wanted to support it.

Author: > I was a bit unsure whether that would work or not

That is a good point! PeriodicTasks are only created if the schedules are uploaded, not if they are saved in the admin interface.

Author: (It would be nice if Github showed comments as people add them.)

Yeah. I see my documentation also lies about disabling messages: Disabling a message that has already been scheduled has no effect.

on the right, you can filter the list to show only the messages that are
enabled.

If you click on a message, it will show you its details.

**NOTE:** Messages are scheduled to be sent, as they are, when schedules
are uploaded. Changes made to messages in the admin interface will not
affect messages that are already scheduled to be sent.

If you download schedules from the normal interface, you will see that
any changes you made in the admin interface are present in the
downloaded spreadsheet. By uploading the spreadsheet, mPACT will

> re-schedule the messages, and bring those changes into effect.

Reviewer 2: should we just fix this to automatically run any time a scheduled message changes? feels a little silly

Reviewer: Yes. Based on the previous change, this should be just a few lines of code, right?

Reviewer 2: agreed, yep

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/dimagi/mpact/pull/49/
